Add ERC-7204: Contract wallet management token (#51)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7204.md

---
eip: 7204
title: Contract wallet management token

> description: Designed for simple token

Reviewer: Your description should expand on the information presented in the title.

author: Xiang (@wenzhenxiang), Ben77 (@ben2077), Mingshi S. (@newnewsms)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/token-asset-management-interface-with-smart-contract-wallet/14759
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-06-21
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

> A proposal to manage simple tokens by the user's smart contract wallet, which provides a new way to manage assets, utilizes the programmability of the smart contract wallet, and also provides more playability.

Reviewer: Your abstract should give a high-level technical overview of your proposal. It shouldn't just be an introduction. Readers should be able to get a sense of how the proposal works, just from this section.

## Motivation

> EOA wallet has no state and code storage, and the smart contract wallet is different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An externally-owned account (EOA) wallet has no state and code storage, while the smart contract wallet does.
```

> AA is a direction of the smart contract wallet, which works around abstract accounts. This ERC can also be an extension based on [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md) or as a plug-in for wallets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Account abstraction (AA) is a direction of the smart contract wallet, which works around abstract accounts. This ERC can also be an extension based on [ERC-4337](./eip-4337.md) or as a plug-in for wallets.
```

The smart contract wallet allows the user's own account to have state and code, bringing programmability to the wallet. We think there are more directions to expand. For example, token asset management, functional expansion of token transactions, etc.

> The smart contract wallet interface of this ERC is for asset management and asset approval. It supports the simpletoken ERC-X, and [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) is backward compatible with ERC-X, so it can be compatible with the management of all fungible tokens in the existing market.

Reviewer: If you include HTML-style comments, the linter will make sure you replace them before going into Review.

```suggestion
The smart contract wallet interface of this ERC is for asset management and asset approval. It supports the simpletoken <!-- TODO --> ERC-X, and [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) is backward compatible with <!-- TODO --> ERC-X, so it can be compatible with the management of all fungible tokens in the existing market.
```

The proposal aims to achieve the following goals:

1. Assets are allocated and managed by the wallet itself, such as approve and allowance, which are configured by the user’s contract wallet, rather than controlled by the token asset contract, to avoid some existing ERC-20 contract risks.

> 2. Add the simpletokenTransfer function, the transaction initiated by the non-smart wallet itself or  will verify the allowance amount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the `simpletokenTransfer` function, the transaction initiated by the non-smart wallet itself or will verify the allowance amount
```

> 3. Add simpletokenApprove, simpletokenAllowance, simpletokenApproveForAll, simpletokenIsApproveForAll functions. The user wallet itself supports approve and provides approve 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add `simpletokenApprove`, `simpletokenAllowance`, `simpletokenApproveForAll`, `simpletokenIsApproveForAll` functions. The user wallet itself supports approve and provides approve 
```

>  for single token assets and all token assets( simpletoken is forward compatible with [ERC-20](./eip-20.md)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 for single token assets and all token assets (simpletoken is forward compatible with [ERC-20](./eip-20.md)).
```

4. user wallet can choose batch approve and batch transfer. 

> 5. Users can choose to add hook function before and after their simpletokenTransfer to increase the user's more playability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Users can choose to add hook function before and after their `simpletokenTransfer` to increase the user's more playability
```

> 6. The user can choose to implement the simpletokenReceive function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The user can choose to implement the `simpletokenReceive` function
```

     * @dev Emits an {SimpletokenApprovalForAll} event.
     * @param spender Address of the spender
     * @param approved Approved all tokens
     * @return success The bool value returns whether the approve is successful
     */
    function simpletokenApproveForAll(address spender, bool approved) 
        external 
        returns (bool success);

    /**
     * @notice read spender approved value
     * @param spender Address of the spender
     * @return approved Whether to approved spender all tokens
     */
    function simpletokenIsApproveForAll(address spender) 
        external
        view
        returns (bool approved);

    /**
     * @notice Transfer simple token
     * @dev must call asset.transfer() inside the function
     * @dev If the caller is not wallet self, must verify the allowance and update the allowance value
     * @param asset Address of the simple token
     * @param to Address of the receive
     * @param value The transaction amount
     * @return success The bool value returns whether the transfer is successful
     */
    function simpletokenTransfer(address asset, address to, uint256 value) 
        external 
        returns (bool success); 

> 
>     
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

}
```

## Rationale

> Use the sequence diagram to compare the difference between using this interface to transfer tokens.

Reviewer: These diagrams don't really explain technical decisions made within this proposal.

**Alice calls the transfer interface by herself**

The user does not use this ERC to call the transaction sequence diagram(transfer).

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    Alice's EOA->>Token Asset Contract: call transfer,update balance state
 

> ```

Reviewer: I doubt these will render correctly. If they do not, please replace them with SVG images if possible.

> The user use this ERC to call the transaction sequence diagram( Alice's Wallet implements this ERC), dotted lines are optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user use this ERC to call the transaction sequence diagram (Alice's Wallet implements this ERC), dotted lines are optional.
```

    Alice's Wallet-->>Alice's Wallet: call simpletokenTransfer
		Alice's Wallet->>Token Contract: call transfer,update balance state
		Token Contract-->>Bob's Wallet : call receiveFungibleToken

```

**Other contract calls Alice’s asset transfer interface**

Sequence diagram of third party calling user transaction without using this ERC(transferForm).

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    Alice's EOA->>Token Contract: call approve
    Alice's EOA->>Defi Contract: call staking
    Defi Contract ->>Token Contract: call transferFrom，update allowance state
  	Token Contract ->> Token Contract: call transfer,update balance state
```

Sequence diagram of third party calling user transaction using this ERC(simpletokenTransfer).

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    Alice's Wallet->>Alice's Wallet: call simpletokenApprove
    Alice's Wallet->>Defi Contract: call staking
    Defi Contract->>Alice's Wallet: call simpletokenTransfer,update allowance state
  	Alice's Wallet ->> Token Contract: call transfer,update balance state
```

## Backwards Compatibility

This ERC can be used as an extension of [ERC-4337](./erc-4337.md) and is backward compatible with ERC-4337.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
